# MAJOR_PROJECT
1.1 Aims and Objectives
This project mainly focusses on the use of RESTful APIs in various scenarios and its development. Whenever we need to connect one application with the data and services of another application, we use an API. For this, we grant all the required permissions. Thus, API acts as a connector between two applications.
In this project, we are mainly focusing on one type of API, known as RESTful API where REST stands for Representational State Transfer). We have tried to explain the benefit of developing RESTful API instead of any other type of API through this project.
We have demonstrated the applications of RESTful API in today’s real life applications like API for Image Recognition. Suppose you are in some different country and feeling hungry, you visit a hotel where in menu, everything is written in their native language. But in front of dish’s name, its image is given. This will help you to place the order by letting you recognize that dish. But this same thing is not easy for machines and software applications. For this, we develop the API which would enable the machines to categorize images and objects and placing them into one of several distinct classes.
We have created the RESTful API for similarity check with the help of Natural Language Processing. By using NLP, accessing, analyzing and communicating of data has become more precise, scale and accurate. It is useful in handling the intrinsic plagiarism detection which sometimes become difficult for other similarity checking tools which do not use NLP as they can’t catch the words having the same meaning.
Another RESTful API that we have developed is for day-to-day banking transactions like depositing the amount, transferring money to another account, taking loan from bank, paying loan etc.

